# Course Name: Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence in Medicine [MM61504] 
## Occular Disease Recognition using Machine Learning, ANN, and Deep learning models - Course Project: Prof. Nirmalya Ghosh [Feb'22-April'22]


At present at least 2.2 billion people around the world have a vision impairment, of whom at least 1 billion have a vision impairment that could have been prevented or is yet to be addressed. The world faces considerable challenges in terms of eye care, including inequalities in the coverage and quality of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation services; a shortage of trained eye care service providers; and poor integration of eye care services into health systems, among others. In ophthalmology, early fundus screening is an economic and effective way to prevent blindness caused by ophthalmic diseases. Clinically, due to the lack of medical resources, manual diagnosis is time-consuming and may delay the condition. With the development of deep learning, some researches on ophthalmic diseases have achieved good results, however, most of them are just based on one disease. Early eye diagnosis is an economical and effective way to prevent blindness caused by diabetes, glaucoma, cataract, age-related macular degeneration (AMD), and many other diseases. Prompt and automatic diagnosis is important and urgent in reducing the activity of the ophthalmologist and preventing visual impairment in patients. Computer vision and deep learning can automatically detect ocular diseases after providing high quality fundus medical images.

In this project we are trying various experiments and methods to build a different model with the help of convolutional neural networks using the TensorFlow library. Also we are trying to analyze fundus images using image processing techniques in matlab and OpenCV python like vessel extraction, detection of edges, detection of optical disc. Apart from this we are trying to implement a few Machine Learning based classification algorithms for classification tasks afterwards we will adapt the algorithm which gives best accuracy.

# Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence (PRMI) part: 
We are trying to classify the fundus images using CNN and Machine Learning algorithms into the aforementioned different classes.

# Medical Image analysis part: 
Will try to find some insights about the round spots of dark red color in retinopathy images. Apart from this we will try to find some statistical inferences like location,perimeter and area from those spots Also try to extract boundaries and vessels from fundus images and analyze some patterns from that.
